negotiators from Hamas Qatar and the US
have been holding talks aimed at
securing a truce in the five-month war
in Gaza us officials have said Israel
has broadly approved a deal but sticking
points have emerged on both sides these
include details of hostages held by
Hamas and the number of Palestinian
prisoners Israel might be willing to
release the Times of Israel reports that
Israel is not willing to join the talks
without a list of hostages who are still
alive for the moment there's no letup in
the fighting Israel has stepped up
operations in the southern Gaza City of
Han Yunis the Army says it has destroyed
dozens more Hamas targets pressure for a
truce is mounting as the United Nations
warns of a looming famine in Gaza the
territory is run by Hamas which carried
out the October 7th Terror
attacks US vice president kamla Harris
has called for a ceasefire in Gaza and
has urged isra to allow Gaza Aid her
comments were among the sharpest yet by
senior us
leadership and
given the immense scale of suffering in
Gaza there must be an immediate
ceasefire for at least the next six
weeks which is what is currently on the
table this will get the hostages out
and get a significant amount of Aid in
well for more now we can speak to
Georgio cafiero he's a Middle East
analyst and the CEO of Gulf State
analytics in Washington DC thanks so
much for joining us here on DW we just
heard Kel Harris call for an immediate
ceasefire using really some of the
strongest language we've heard so far
from the US do you think this is
Washington trying to distance itself
from Israeli
leadership well it's a good question and
I think it's important to realize that
of course us domestic politics are in
play uh many of the sort of Base voters
if you will in the Democratic party are
very upset at the Biden Administration
for being so incredibly supportive of
Israel's war on Gaza over these past few
months and the Biden team certainly does
not want um more Progressive voters
sitting at home in November um in terms
of the US Israel relationship though I
mean what we've seen over these past few
months is that the Biden Administration
is always voicing its opinion explaining
what it prefers telling Israel what it
would like to see happen but we never
have seen the Biden Administration you
know actually condition Aid to Israel
set any red lines or ultimatums and
without any of that I'm always skeptical
that this rhetoric and these statements
really have anything to do with the
Biden Administrations actual policies
that have some real substance to
them okay and looking at the region
itself what kind of ceasefire deal do
you expect if any in the coming hours or
days well there obviously is this talk
right now um about an arrangement that
the US Egypt and Kar have been working
to secure whereby we'd have a ceasefire
for six weeks uh there would a swap of
captives and prisoners some humanitarian
Aid let in it seems though that Hamas is
sort of setting as a condition not just
a ceasefire that might last for 6 weeks
but rather a permanent end to the war
there's also uh demands Hamas is making
about letting Palestinians return to
Northern Gaza and expulsion of the
departure of the Israeli occupying
forces on the ground in the besieged
Enclave so whether or not uh the
negotiators from Doha Cairo and
Washington are going to be able to
bridge the gaps I don't know um it's
going to certainly require quite a bit
more work I think um really seeing his
believing and I'm I'm not so convinced
that there's going to be some sort of an
arrangement the two sides are going to
agree to I certainly hope that's the
case but again seeing is
believing and so it clearly like there
are so many sticking points here and
while these treat talks happen the
Israeli Army is stepping up attacks in
southern Gaza so with all that in mind
do you see any chance of Israel agreeing
to a long-term
ceasefire I think we're going to get to
that point uh often left out of these
discussions is the fact that
continuation of this War uh imposes a
huge cost on the Israeli economy there's
also domestic politics in Israel um
we're talking you know about the
influence the the role of the families
of the hostages who have been held by
Hamas and Gaza for a number of months so
obviously this conflict this war cannot
continue forever there's going to come a
point when the dust eventually settles
in Gaza but I think it's very possible
that the Netanyahu government is going
to continue uh raging this war for uh a
longer period of time unfortunately
Middle East analyst Georgio cafiro in
Washington DC thank you so much for
taking the time to speak to
us it's a
pleasure